Stand alone Centos 7 on a VirtualBox

 If you are thinking,  why install a centos 7 in todays age when a full blown
VM of various BigData eco-systems are readily available? Think again.

 A quick booting lean and mean Centos 7 on a VirtualBox is very handy in 
development and testing of all kinds of ML and analytics products. 
One could easily build stand alone spark and play around with NoSql, ML and 
graph systems.
 How about installing Jupyter notebooks on Python and playing around with
predictive analytics. If you come from  traditional 3 tier architecture
and want to try out a web based end-to-end system you could install MYsql or
PostgresSql in the backend and install a suitable web server like tomcat in the
middle and play around with web development. 

 The ever popular Microsoft SQL server is now available in linux platform.
There are many opensource inMemory databases to play around with.  Those of 
you who are into AI and Deep learning could deploy many popular open source 
projects and play with it. So, The possibilities are endless.

Checklist for deploying Centos 7 on a VirtualBox
-------------------------------------------------
Make sure to have atleast 20 GB space on your PC/laptop and plan to configure
it atleast 3 GB ( 4 GB preferable) main memory.

1. Download a copy of Centos 7 disc image file from centos.org

2. Start VirtualBox and click on New to create a VM.
   type a suitable name for the VM. elct type as Linux and version
   as Red Hat(64 Bit)
3. Choose a suitable memory size. 
4. Choose "Create a virtual hard disk now' 
5. chose VDI as hard disk type
6. Choose "Dynamically allocated" as Storage on physical disk
7. choose the location for disk

The VirtualBox creates the new VM.

8.  click on the settings and choose general -> advanced and 
     change shared clipboard to 'bidirectional'
9. Optional - click on system and change the number of processors if needed
   and available.

10. right click on VM and start
11. select the name of the ISO file downloaded from centos and start.
12. The system will boot and It is time to choose options.
13. Select installation Destination and continue
14. Tab to software selection and choose GNOME desktop.
     choose minimal environment as needed and select DONE.
15. Select network and hostname and turnon the ethernet connection.
     setup root password and a user login.
     select Begin installation.

   The VM will be created.

Shutdown and start the VM again from VirtualBox.

Setup an external client like Putty and connect to the VM.
Goodluck and have fun.










